So, Caitlin, and we've talked about it gives us this flexibility of extending or inheriting from other
classes, which is really good because it gives us this flexibility of not repeating code, but also
make it so that there is this system tree system, if you will, that allows us to inherit and get information
from a super class to a child class.
So it's a very good paradigm programming paradigm, as we've seen, and it has a lot of benefits, but
there are times that we need something more and Caitlin gives us a lot.
One of the things that it gives us is something called extension functions.
So a good example.
A simple example would be imagine that we are trying to append a string after a text like this.
So we have hello there and then we want to create a function that will append a string.
So, for instance, could say hello there.
How are you or hello there, sir?
Hello there, miss.
Hello there, Mrs., and so forth.
So string being one of the classes that comes prebuilt in Kotlin, we can actually extend that and create
a function what we call the extension function that will append the text to existing string.
OK, now this is a very simplistic, of course, example, and there are other ways to actually append
strings.
This is going to give us some sort of a start to understanding extension functions.
OK, let's go ahead and take a look in code and see how that will work.
All right, let's go ahead and create an extension function, so what is this syntax, how do we create
an extinction function?
So outside of Maine here when I can do the first thing you need to do, of course, I'm going to say
fun because it's going to be a function.
And then we start by invoking the class library class that comes with that.
We want to create extinction function from.
So in this case, going to be string.
OK, and then we say, Dot want to create our own?
So we're going to name it something different.
I'm going to say this append as such.
And then it's going to be a function so we can pass parameters inside here.
I'm just going to say to append to signify this is going to be a string that we're going to append to
the pre-existing string or text.
And I want this to actually return a string.
OK.
OK, so in this case here, all I'm going to do, I'm going to say we turn now the idea is that if we
come up here and I see, for instance, print, I'll end the message here.
If I say Hello, Janey, I want to be able to say dot and invoke a pen.
In fact, at the moment, you do that.
You can see it is showing already and we haven't done anything.
This append is exactly what we just created here.
That is the power of extinction functions because we leveraged what already existed to our advantage.
We even create the string class.
We can't even do much with it, but we can extend.
That's why they call extinction functions, right.
So there is the sense that it is that when we are pand mean, we are gluing say hello, Janie, and
then we're going to penned some text here that would say something like.
Friend or whatever.
That's what we're doing.
So how do we do that?
Well, first of all, we need to get this text here, right?
Which is strength.
How do we do that inside here?
There is this implicit this keyword.
I say this if you have over, this will mean what?
It's going to be a string type, which means going to be whatever we are passing as a string.
So this is actually the string.
OK.
And then in this case, I would say this get the string and I'm going to say that plus.
So I'm just going to add something else and then add the two append string three passing air.
And so now you can see this is working fine because we do have this append actually returning something.
So let's say, sir, or it's like this.
Let's go ahead and run.
And while we can see says, Hello, Jenny, miss.
So whatever we pass here, friend and run, it's going to append that message or the string that we
want our pen to.
Now this is a very important concept of extension functions where, as you can see, we can customize
anything.
So think of any class that comes with Kotlin.
You can add your own extension function to do something extra that they may not be able to do out of
the box.
And since we know how to make our code even more succinct and codling, we know that we can remove this
actually, because it's just one liner.
You can get rid of all of that.
Get rid of return.
Such and just say equals like this.
OK, so this is the same thing what we had before.
So now it's just in one line.
We're saying that we're going to return these that append this string that we are adding there.
So we ran this, we'll see that same thing happens.
We are appending friend after the string there get put a comma as well, maybe less space.
And Iran can also put a smiley face.
It's having some fun here, and there we have it.
Also, I may have to correct myself a little bit.
I may have called the append being the receiver type.
That's not true.
That's actually the extension function name, as you see there.
But the receiver type is this right, which refers to the type being extended?
That's something that I wanted to correct myself here.
So as you can see, there are a lot of things we can do with extension functions because it allows us
to extend beyond what the library gives us the Coughlin library.
So think of other ways in which you can extend the library.
In this case, create extension functions.
How about creating an extension function that will take a string such as space as we have here and remove
the first and the last characters?
Just think about it and maybe do some research and figure out a way to do that.